The Cub and the Leopard
Before you read the story
How do young animals learn about the world?
What happens when young animals do not listen to their parents?
Now read the story
The mother leopard had a little cub. He was a beautiful young animal. His fur was golden and his spots were black. He was small, but he was strong.
In the same part of the country there was a mother goat. She had a little kid. The kid was a lovely little animal. His eyes were bright and his tail was long. He liked to run and jump.
One day, the leopard cub ran away from his mother to play. The goat's kid ran off to play, too. They met beside the river.
The leopard cub saw the kid and he liked him.
"Perhaps he will play with me," he thought.
The kid saw the cub, too.
"He's nice," he thought. "Perhaps he will be my friend."
"Hello, little kid," the cub said. "Will you play with me?"
"Yes," said the kid. "I will."
So the cub and the kid played together. They ran and they jumped. They talked and they laughed. They rolled in the grass and they tried to catch butterflies.
When the evening came, the cub and the kid were friends.
"I must go home now," said the cub. "My mother is waiting for me."
"I must go too," said the kid. "My mother is waiting for me."
"Will you come and play with me tomorrow?" said the cub.
"Oh yes," said the kid. "I will."
The cub went home to his mother.
"Well, my son," the mother leopard said to him. "What did you do today?"
"Oh Mother," answered the kid. "I found a new friend."
"And who is your new friend?" asked his mother.
"He's small, and his coat is brown," said the cub. "He says ‘maa, maa’."
"Ah, my dear," said his mother. "That was the kid, the son of the goat, and he is very good to eat."
"To eat?" said the cub. "Do leopards eat goats?"
"Yes," answered his mother. "All leopards eat goats. Now listen. Tomorrow you will go and play with the kid again. Bring him home to me, and we will eat him for our dinner."
"Mother, I can't do that," the leopard cub cried. "The kid is my friend! How can I eat my friend?"
His mother was angry.
"Are you a leopard, or a mouse?" she asked. "If you are a leopard, you will eat the kid. And believe me, my dear, his meat will taste very good."
Not far away, the kid was talking to his mother.
"Now, my son," the mother goat was saying, "where did you go today?"
"Oh Mother," answered the kid. "I went to the river to play. I met a beautiful animal. He has golden fur, and his spots were black. We ran and jumped together. We talked and laughed together, and now he is my friend."
"Ah, my poor son," the mother goat said. "That was the leopard cub. A leopard cannot be your friend. Leopards eat goats. If you play with him again, he will try to eat you."
"What?" cried the kid. "But the cub is my friend! He won't eat me!"
His mother was angry.
"Are you a goat, or a fool?" she said. "All leopards are our enemies. Don't you understand?"
"Yes, Mother," the poor little kid said.
"Then tomorrow," said the goat, "you must be careful. When you see the leopard's cub, you must run away."
The next day the cub ran out to play. The kid ran out, too. They met beside the river. The cub looked at the kid and his mouth watered. 
"My mother was right," he thought. "The kid will be very good to eat."
"Hello, my little friend," the cub said. "Come and play with me."
He was lying down on his stomach, and his tail was moving in the long grass.
The kid looked at the cub, and he moved backwards. He was ready to run away.
"No, thank you," he said. "I don't want to play today."
The cub closed his eyes, and opened them again.
"But my mother wants to meet you," he said. "Come to my house with me. You will like it there."
The kid moved backwards again.
"No," he said. "Yesterday we were friends. I liked you and we played together. But then you went to your house, and I went to mine. You spoke to your mother, and I spoke to mine. Goodbye, my friend. You are my enemy now."
He ran away and went home to his mother. Sadly, the leopard returned to his mother, too.
"I have lost a friend," they both thought, and they were sad.
 
The Magic Stick
Do you believe in miracles?
If you could perform a miracle, what would you do?
Now read the story
Part One
A poor man was married to a beautiful woman. The man and his wife never quarrelled. The husband loved his wife. The wife loved her husband. They were very happy.
But this happy couple had a rich, handsome neighbour. He saw the poor man's beautiful wife and he fell in love with her.
I want to marry her myself, he thought.
Every day, when the woman's husband was working in the fields, the rich man went to the poor man's house.
"You’re a beautiful woman," he said to the poor man's wife, "but your clothes are old. Why doesn't your husband buy new, pretty clothes for you? I'm sure he doesn't love you. If he loved you, he would buy wonderful clothes for you. Divorce him, and marry me. I will buy you beautiful new clothes, the best in the land. Then you will be the most beautiful woman in Ethiopia." 
At first the woman didn't listen to the rich man. But he came to her house every day, and every day he said the same things. 
At last, she began to think, “Perhaps my neighbour is right. Why doesn't my husband buy beautiful new clothes for me? Perhaps he doesn't love me! “
That night, she said to her husband, "Look at me, husband! My clothes are old and ugly. I want new ones. Buy me some new clothes!" 
Her husband smiled at her. 
"You don't need new clothes," he said. "You are the most beautiful woman in the world to me." 
She was angry. 
"Don't you love me?" she said. "If you love me, buy me a new dress!" 
Her husband loved his wife and he wanted to please her. 
"I have only a little money," he thought, "and I need a new plough. But I want my dear wife to be happy." 
So the next day, he went to the market and he bought a new dress for his wife. 
He took it home to her and she put it on. 
"Thank you, my dear husband," she cried. "Now I know that you love me!" 
When the rich man came to see her again, she was wearing her new dress. 
"You see?" she said to him. "My husband loves me very much. He bought me this beautiful new dress."


The Trees and the Axe
The world has big problems. The climate is changing. There are not enough jobs for young people.
Is there a problem that worries you?
Where did you hear about it?
Do you try to find a solution?
Do you leave it to other people to sort out?
One day, all the trees in the world had a big meeting.
"We are in trouble," the oldest tree said to the others. "Years ago, we used to live in peace. There were trees everywhere. They covered the whole land. But where are they now? Axes have cut them down."
"You are right," another tree said. "The axe is our enemy. Axes cut us down, then they prepare us to make houses, and ploughs, and furniture. They even chop us up to burn on the fire!"
"The axe!" the other trees shouted. "The axe is our enemy! We must kill the axe!"
"But how can we kill the axe?" the smallest tree asked.
The trees talked together for a long time. None of them could find an answer. Only the eucalyptus said nothing. He watched and listened.
"The axe is too strong for us," the trees all said at last. "We are too weak. We can never kill the axe."
The eucalyptus waved one of his branches.
"My friends," he said. "Listen to me. The axe isn't our enemy."
The other trees were angry.
"What do you mean?" they cried. "Of course he is our enemy!"
The eucalyptus waited again. 
When they were all quiet, he said, "What is an axe made of? The head is made of metal, but the handle is made of wood. And where does the wood come from? It comes from us, the trees!" 
The other trees began to nod their heads.
"He's right," they said. 
"But only bent wood can make axes," the eucalyptus went on. "If we grow straight, there will be no more bent wood. The axes will not have wood for their handles. Then, there will be no more axes! I tell you, my friends, from today, I'm going to grow straight. There will be no bends in my wood! Wait, and you will see."
The eucalyptus kept his promise. From that day, he grew straight, and there were no bends in his wood. But the other trees didn't listen to the eucalyptus. They grew in the old way, with bending trunks and branches.
And so the trees did not kill their enemy, the axe, and the axe continued to cut them down.

Wardit the Mule
Have you ever avoided somebody that you know?
Have you ever crossed over to the other side of the street because you don't want to talk to them?
What stopped you saying hello?
What were you thinking?

Sometimes people ask questions that you don't want to answer. Their questions make you feel small or stupid.

Has this happened to you?
What made you want to change the topic?
What were you feeling?

Now read the story

Once upon a time, there was a young mule called Wardit. She was clever, and beautiful, but she was very proud.
One day, Wardit went to the river to drink some water.
On the road, she met a handsome young horse.
"Wardit is the most beautiful mule in the world!" thought the horse."I must marry her."
He ran up to Wardit.
"How are you, Wardit?" he said.
"I am fine, thank God," she answered.
"How are you?"
"I am fine, too," the horse said.
"Where are you going?"
"I'm going to the river to drink some water," Wardit said.
"Then let me come with you," said the horse.
"Oh Wardit, you are the most beautiful mule in the world. Let me stay with you! Let me marry you! Please, be my wife!"
Wardit looked at the horse. He was young, and handsome, and strong. "I will marry him," she thought.
"Who are your parents?" the horse asked her. "Who is your father? Who is your mother?"
Wardit turned her head away. She didn't want to answer him.
"Tell me, my dear," the horse said. "Who is your father? I must know the family of my bride."
Wardit laughed. "Oh," she said. "You can see my mother every day. She lives in the palace, and the governor rides her every morning."
"But your father?" the horse said. "Who is he?"
"And my sister," Wardit said, "belongs to the priest. Don't you know her? He rides her to the church."
"Yes," the horse said, "but who is your father? Where is he, and what is his name?"
"And my aunt," cried Wardit, "oh, my aunt is so beautiful! She lives with the headman of the village, and he loves her like his daughter."
"That's very good," the horse said, "but please, dear Wardit, tell me about your father. I want to know about him."
Just then, a poor old donkey came down the road. It was Wardit's father. She looked at him, and she was ashamed.
"My father is only a donkey," she thought, "but the horse is young and handsome. He will not want this poor old animal to be his father-in-law."
The donkey was near Wardit now. She did not greet him. She did not look at him, or smile at him.
"Wardit!" the old donkey said to his daughter. "What are you doing here?"
Wardit didn't answer.
Her father was angry. "What's the matter, my girl?" he said. "Why don't you answer me? Don't you know who I am?"
Wardit said nothing. She didn't want to talk to her father. She didn't look at him.
The horse was angry now. "Who is this foolish old donkey?" he said. "Why is he speaking to you, my beautiful bride?"
"I don't know," said Wardit. "I don't know him."
"You don't know me?" cried the donkey. "But Wardit, I am your ..."
But the horse wasn't listening. "Go away!" he shouted to Wardit's father. "You foolish old donkey. Leave us alone!"
The donkey didn't move. The horse kicked him. The donkey fell down, and the horse kicked him again. The poor donkey's heart broke.
He looked up to the sky. "Oh God," he said. "Did you see this?" And then the donkey died.
God heard the donkey's words. He said to Wardit, "Wardit, your father is dead, and now I must punish you. Horses will have children, and donkeys will have children, but you, the mule, will never have a child. This is your punishment, because you did not respect your father."


Yearning for Tourmaline
As a child, I was given rocks and fossils in jewelry-sized boxes. I’d always hoped for tourmaline, the rainbow stone that generates electrical charge. Right before I moved to a new city, my best friend came to see me. My family moved often enough that I knew it might be the last time we ever spoke. Perhaps that’s why I acted on my feelings, which I hadn’t yet categorized but recognized as electric. I tried to kiss her. She literally ran from the room. As an adult, I’m still studying that moment of erosion, still admiring rainbows from afar. 
Unfailing Old Magic
At the finish line, I couldn’t find my son, one of 21,000 Brooklyn half-marathoners. My cellphone, that new magic, wasn’t working. I needed something else. I grew Adrian in my body, held him tight when my husband died 12 years later. My deep love, that old magic, could tune into him. I put my phone away and closed my eyes. The noise of the crowd faded. My eyes snapped open. I knew exactly where to head. When I spotted him, he grinned and said, “I knew I’d find you.” He’s young, but he has the old magic too.
Her Red Swimsuit
I found her swimsuit. The red one from the summer she worked as a lifeguard. That summer, we hung out because we wanted to, not because we shared parents or a house. We shared a friend, a guy who became my boyfriend, then, eventually, my husband. Melissa and I bonded while jumping on his backyard trampoline. I regularly told her “I love you.” But did I elaborate? Was I intentional with my actions and words? Holding her swimsuit, fifteen years after her death in a plane crash, I hope my sister can feel the depth of my admiration. 
Our Call and Response
Earl and I were introduced in January 1961. As we sat in a darkened movie theater in April watching a rescreening of “An American in Paris,” he leaned forward and whispered, “I think I love you.” I replied, “Please let me know when you do.” He did, and we married in October. Over the next 46 happy years until Earl passed, he would occasionally lean forward and whisper, “I think I love you.” And yes, I would then lean forward and whisper, “Please let me know when you do.”
Finally Finding “The Magic”
Since childhood, I yearned for love. Once, I came within weeks of marriage before it abruptly fell apart. He said we were missing “the magic,” and, admittedly, he was right. A few men came and went. I’m now 59 with Stage 4 metastatic breast cancer. I still don’t have a partner, but I’ve fallen desperately in love with life. Exquisite beauty emerges everywhere: my cat on my lap, a cashier extending an unexpected smile, sunlight skipping across a lake. I use each day to soak up the world’s splendor. “Not yet,” I whisper to the heavens. “I love it here.”
After the Rollercoaster
I knew Pete loved me, but I wasn’t sure he’d fallen for my 5-year-old until he hoisted her onto his shoulders after a day riding roller coasters. Over too many beers on our first date, I’d told him everything: how I was still slogging through a divorce, living in a house that wouldn’t sell. How my daughter had medical issues I had yet to unravel. Everything felt so complicated, and I expected him to run. But as he beamed holding my daughter that day, Smurf-blue ice cream trickling down his forehead, I could see he was all in on messy. 
What the Silence Said
After I came out to my father at 18, little more was said about it. But 30 years later — loopy from hospice medications one afternoon — he told me that his closest friend had been a gay engineering colleague. He said the man was brilliant, funny and died of AIDS in the early ’90s. The way he beamed with joy remembering his friend helped me understand that his silence had never been disapproval; it was an acceptance of facts. That afternoon he was, as he had always been, a father who fully embraced his son with love.
My Father’s Un-Hinged Profile
My dad’s Hinge profile showed his pandemic scruff, cheeky smirk and favorite frayed T-shirt. He claimed his strength was listening but added the caveat that he “may not agree with you.” He called it “rugged charm”; I disagreed. After several matchless months, he let me give his dating profile a millennial makeover. We swapped out his old photo for one of him clean-shaven with a bright smile in the outdoors. We revamped his prompts to highlight his superhero dad qualities and love of movies. My dad’s Hinge profile no longer seemed unhinged. Two months later, he had a girlfriend.
A Frugal Way to Flirt
I come from thrifty stock. We wash Ziploc bags. Repurpose dehumidifier water. Laugh at expiration dates. I got hives first entering my now husband’s house, where paper towels reigned and there was nary a dish towel in sight. Listening to water running while he brushed his teeth felt like hearing nails on a chalkboard. Early marriage counseling included negotiations on the length of the dryer cycle. Thirty plus years later, Sean speaks my love language. He reuses old tape. Carries cutlery in his bag. And has “bathroom” scissors to cut the tops off of his hotel lotions to ensure he gets every drop.
The Legend to My Map
Coming from flat Nebraska, I had no clue how to read a topographic map. By candlelight in a Yosemite employee tent-cabin, Mike decoded the densely packed rivers of lines, tracing his guitar-calloused finger along a trail. He showed me how my first solo trek up hard mountain switchbacks would lead to an easy meadow stretch. “You can do it,” he said. Twenty-seven years later, as we navigate the ups and downs of our careers, parenthood and aging parents, he still helps me decode the topographic map of our joint life trek — assuring me that the hard switchbacks won’t last.