Yearning for Tourmaline
As a child, I was given rocks and fossils in jewelry-sized boxes. I’d always hoped for tourmaline, the rainbow stone that generates electrical charge. Right before I moved to a new city, my best friend came to see me. My family moved often enough that I knew it might be the last time we ever spoke. Perhaps that’s why I acted on my feelings, which I hadn’t yet categorized but recognized as electric. I tried to kiss her. She literally ran from the room. As an adult, I’m still studying that moment of erosion, still admiring rainbows from afar. 
Unfailing Old Magic
At the finish line, I couldn’t find my son, one of 21,000 Brooklyn half-marathoners. My cellphone, that new magic, wasn’t working. I needed something else. I grew Adrian in my body, held him tight when my husband died 12 years later. My deep love, that old magic, could tune into him. I put my phone away and closed my eyes. The noise of the crowd faded. My eyes snapped open. I knew exactly where to head. When I spotted him, he grinned and said, “I knew I’d find you.” He’s young, but he has the old magic too.
Her Red Swimsuit
I found her swimsuit. The red one from the summer she worked as a lifeguard. That summer, we hung out because we wanted to, not because we shared parents or a house. We shared a friend, a guy who became my boyfriend, then, eventually, my husband. Melissa and I bonded while jumping on his backyard trampoline. I regularly told her “I love you.” But did I elaborate? Was I intentional with my actions and words? Holding her swimsuit, fifteen years after her death in a plane crash, I hope my sister can feel the depth of my admiration. 
Our Call and Response
Earl and I were introduced in January 1961. As we sat in a darkened movie theater in April watching a rescreening of “An American in Paris,” he leaned forward and whispered, “I think I love you.” I replied, “Please let me know when you do.” He did, and we married in October. Over the next 46 happy years until Earl passed, he would occasionally lean forward and whisper, “I think I love you.” And yes, I would then lean forward and whisper, “Please let me know when you do.”
Finally Finding “The Magic”
Since childhood, I yearned for love. Once, I came within weeks of marriage before it abruptly fell apart. He said we were missing “the magic,” and, admittedly, he was right. A few men came and went. I’m now 59 with Stage 4 metastatic breast cancer. I still don’t have a partner, but I’ve fallen desperately in love with life. Exquisite beauty emerges everywhere: my cat on my lap, a cashier extending an unexpected smile, sunlight skipping across a lake. I use each day to soak up the world’s splendor. “Not yet,” I whisper to the heavens. “I love it here.”
After the Rollercoaster
I knew Pete loved me, but I wasn’t sure he’d fallen for my 5-year-old until he hoisted her onto his shoulders after a day riding roller coasters. Over too many beers on our first date, I’d told him everything: how I was still slogging through a divorce, living in a house that wouldn’t sell. How my daughter had medical issues I had yet to unravel. Everything felt so complicated, and I expected him to run. But as he beamed holding my daughter that day, Smurf-blue ice cream trickling down his forehead, I could see he was all in on messy. 
What the Silence Said
After I came out to my father at 18, little more was said about it. But 30 years later — loopy from hospice medications one afternoon — he told me that his closest friend had been a gay engineering colleague. He said the man was brilliant, funny and died of AIDS in the early ’90s. The way he beamed with joy remembering his friend helped me understand that his silence had never been disapproval; it was an acceptance of facts. That afternoon he was, as he had always been, a father who fully embraced his son with love.
My Father’s Un-Hinged Profile
My dad’s Hinge profile showed his pandemic scruff, cheeky smirk and favorite frayed T-shirt. He claimed his strength was listening but added the caveat that he “may not agree with you.” He called it “rugged charm”; I disagreed. After several matchless months, he let me give his dating profile a millennial makeover. We swapped out his old photo for one of him clean-shaven with a bright smile in the outdoors. We revamped his prompts to highlight his superhero dad qualities and love of movies. My dad’s Hinge profile no longer seemed unhinged. Two months later, he had a girlfriend.
A Frugal Way to Flirt
I come from thrifty stock. We wash Ziploc bags. Repurpose dehumidifier water. Laugh at expiration dates. I got hives first entering my now husband’s house, where paper towels reigned and there was nary a dish towel in sight. Listening to water running while he brushed his teeth felt like hearing nails on a chalkboard. Early marriage counseling included negotiations on the length of the dryer cycle. Thirty plus years later, Sean speaks my love language. He reuses old tape. Carries cutlery in his bag. And has “bathroom” scissors to cut the tops off of his hotel lotions to ensure he gets every drop.
The Legend to My Map
Coming from flat Nebraska, I had no clue how to read a topographic map. By candlelight in a Yosemite employee tent-cabin, Mike decoded the densely packed rivers of lines, tracing his guitar-calloused finger along a trail. He showed me how my first solo trek up hard mountain switchbacks would lead to an easy meadow stretch. “You can do it,” he said. Twenty-seven years later, as we navigate the ups and downs of our careers, parenthood and aging parents, he still helps me decode the topographic map of our joint life trek — assuring me that the hard switchbacks won’t last.
